Welcome back to the library studio here
as part of the Yahowah Blog. After some
consideration and recognizing where we're
going on this adventure, which is back into
the garden, we've decided to rename this
series Returning to the Garden. And this
will be Episode Two, with the previous
recap presentation as Episode One of our
return to the garden. There are very few
things that I could share with you that
are as vital to knowing Yahowah's
plan as it's portrayed in the Torah plays
out over seven thousand years, with the
eighth thousand-year period representing
eternity.
It was just eight years shy of six
thousand years ago that Adam and Chawah
were escorted out of the garden.
Two thousand years,
which is forty Yowbel after that time,
Abraham and Yitschaq climbed Mount Moriah to
perform a dress rehearsal for what would
be Pesach with the very Son of God
serving as the Passover Lamb.
And so forty Yowbel,
which is two thousand years from 1968 BCE,
when the narrative of the Covenant was
established on that mountain,
is when Dowd,
the very Son of God and our Messiah
and King,
fulfilled Pesach on that very mountain
on Moriah.
And that was 33 CE.
And so forty Yowbel,
or two thousand years from that point,
will be 2033 and we will
experience the fulfillment of the fall
Mowedym: Matsah, Bikuwrym, Shabuwah, Taruwah, Kipurym, and Sukah.
And it is on Sukah that we return
to Gan 'Eden.
Yahowah is very clear in His prophecy.
So it's a wonder that I'm the only
person sharing this with you.
But that is the purpose of Sukah.
It is a celebration of our return to
Gan 'Eden.
And it occurs in year 6000,
which is 2033.
Our entrance back into the garden after
the fulfillment of Taruwah,
which is the 23rd and 24th of September of
2033,
which will be the greatest show on Earth.
That's a day we could talk about for
five hours and not run out of material.
We will experience the return of Dowd and
Yahowah on Kipurym,
which is the 2nd of October,
6:22 p.m. in Jerusalem as the sun sets
of 2033,
and then just five days thereafter,
we return to the garden on Sukah,
which is from the verbal root sakak,
which is identical to the verbal root of
Gan, which is Gan,
all conveying the same meaning:
enclosed, protected,
covered, and sheltered garden.
So that is where we're headed back.
The prophets have proclaimed it.
The Earth is transformed back into the
garden of 'Eden conditions as the Earth is
purged of all traces of religion and
politics,
militancy and conspiracy during Taruwah.
And this is the beginning of that
celebration of the fall Mowedym Miqraey.
So that's what we're celebrating.
It's our return to the garden.
And I thought we should designate
the series appropriately.
And we've already done a number of shows
on the garden.
And it's amazing that the more we study
the material, the more we learn.
You know, for example,
in the previous episode,
I shared with you that the Shamak of
Yahowah is Dowd.
He is the branch that enables our lives
to be renewed and grow.
And the Adamah is Yada.
He is the bloody red man of the Earth who will
emerge from the soil and nurture that tree
such that you can find your way back
to it.
And that these two individuals are the
same individuals that were spoken of in
Bare'syth 1 and BaRa'Sith.
In the opening chapter where God went on
four long statements proclaiming the
purpose of the greater and lesser
luminaries,
one reflecting the other's light as signs
for the Mowedym,
these restoring witnesses to God's eternal
testimony that are fulfilled as Pesach,
Matsah, and Bikuwrym,
which is what Dowd fulfilled in
33 CE.
He is not given credit for it by
the religious because they have stolen His
accomplishments to create Christianity and
Judaism, even indirectly Islam.
And then we are about to celebrate
Shabuwah.
It will be celebrated in two phases.
The Time of Yisrael's Troubles beginning on
May 22nd of this coming year, just
seven months from now, and then
the following year, the 11th of June
2027 is when we anticipate
the Shabuwah gathering, and then
following that, seven years thereafter
in 2033.
The great show begins on Taruwah,
and then Yom Kipurym with the return of
Father and Son,
the great family reunion and homecoming,
followed by our return to the garden,
which is why this series is named as
such.
This next sentence is interesting to
diagnose.
We spent a lot of time on it
in a prior show.
It is prefaced with kol,
which means every aspect of the entirety or
all of something, and in this case, tree,
which is 'ets, is singular.
So God is speaking of the entire tree.
And of one particular tree,
tree is masculine singular in the text.
And tree is a productive,
upright life with firmly embedded roots
and branches which reach up to absorb the
light of the sun.
It is from 'atzah, its verbal root,
and it is distinguished by 'etsah,
which means to provide counsel and advice
through diligence and effort
on the entirety of the plan for the
purpose of developing a backbone so we have some
character and overcoming challenges.
I told you that I'm trying to deal
with a cranky back here these last three
or four days.
I've even got an ice pad behind me
now out of camera sight.
And doing so to advocate for the proper
response, even if painful,
while also risking being shut out
because it is an open defiance of the
schemes of others.
It's challenging to be the tree of
knowledge in a world that celebrates lies.
And it says of this tree,
and this tree is not literally a tree.
The greater and lesser luminaries are not
literally the sun and the moon.
God uses symbols and metaphors to tell His
story.
He's really good at painting pictures with
words and using symbols and metaphors.
So the Tree of Knowledge is this series
of books.
It's Yada Yahowah.
If you wanted to name a person that
is responsible for it, it would be Yada.
Just as Dowd, he is the Tree of
Lives. His story is told in the three
soon-to-be four volumes of Coming Home.
He fulfilled Pesach, opening the doorway to
life, which is why He became the Tree
of Lives. And it is the purpose of
the Tree of Knowledge to reintroduce all
that Dowd has achieved to the world so
that the people of this world are finally in a
position to capitalize on Dowd's
fulfillment of Pesach, Matsah,
and Bikuwrym.
So you know what He did,
when He did it, why He did it,
how you can benefit from it,
how you capitalize upon it.
All of these things are essential if
you're going to survive to the end of
this Time of Trouble, which, as I say,
commences shortly and concludes less than
eight years from now.
So it says of this individual, this man,
it's masculine singular,
that is being represented by the tree,
that is providing counsel on the entire
picture that God has painted.
From God's point of view,
and He is the one that is speaking,
he's delightful.
He's desirable, He's pleasing.
He's even fruitful in delivering a
productive and treasured harvest.
That is His purpose.
The Tree of Knowledge bears fruit and the
fruit is knowledge of God,
an understanding of God.
This is from the Hebrew chamad.
It says that he is an attractive and
valuable resource to whom to look forward
to and anticipation of his demonstrable
fruitfulness.
We have shared many times that the role
of this same individual, Yada,
it happens to be myself,
is that's why these books are all
designated as books
Yada Yahowah under the symbol of the
menorah, that it is
Yada's responsibility to serve as the
Adamah Parah.
And as I shared in this last program,
Parah simply expands what we know about
the concept of this bull being productive
and fruitful.
And he is the one who is cultivating
this final harvest of Shabuwah and then
Taruwah.
And from God's point of view,
he's going to deliver the goods.
He is productive.
He is offering what is a delightful,
desirable, and treasured harvest.
He is chamad.
And so this is God's view of Yada.
And He would go on to say of
this individual,
that he will be visually portraying that
which is clear and comprehensible,
conveying a supernatural revelation.
Mar'eh is the Hebrew term here,
and it speaks of a phenomenal,
even supernatural vision,
such that we can ponder the implications
of something.
It is from mah and ra'ah.
Mah means to question, to think about,
to contemplate.
Investigate what pertains to ra'ah,
what can be seen, perceived,
and considered.
The fact that he is His witness of
this tree,
because He's still talking about this man
represented by the tree,
and this one who is producing a highly
treasured and desirable harvest,
who is considered entirely worthy
comprehensive in his testimony regarding
the fullness of Yah's plan as this 'etsah,
that he is offering what would normally be
considered a supernatural understanding of
God's revelation.
This is a mar'eh.
It's used to speak of the revelation of
God.
And now he's doing it by studying Yahowah's
prophets and conveying their message.
But it's so much more than that because
he is specifically gifted by the seven
Ruwach of Yahowah to be able to analyze
the testimony of the prophets and provide
amplified translations that reveal
insights
that have never been seen before,
that have never been shared before,
that were specifically written into the
text to present at this time,
in this way,
as part of this program for you.
That is what a mar'eh is conveying.
And God is saying,
it's towb, baby, it's beneficial, it's good,
it's productive, it's pleasing what you're
listening to and what you would read in
these books. In fact, this one is so
interesting because it is the presentation
of what's going to occur in the last
eight years. This is future history. It's
pages of
amplified translations and of
commentary and of insights so that you
might know what is going to happen, when,
where, and why,
and how you can benefit and protect
yourself as well from all of it over
the next eight years.
That's why it's called 'Ets Tserah,
the Time of Trouble.
So here we are,
we know that the 'ets is a man
symbolized by a tree and that from God's
point of view,
he's providing a supernatural inspired
revelation that is exceedingly productive
and beneficial.
And it visually portrays a clear and
comprehensible vision
message from God that Yahowah says is
delightful, desirable, pleasing, and fruitful
and that it ultimately is going to deliver
a marvelous treasure for everyone who is
part of the Covenant, including this
beautiful flower from my flower Miss Leia.
For those who haven't, I would encourage
you to consider the
Runaway Woman,
which is the featured post on the Facebook
page.
If you go to yadayah.com and you look
down and you click on the Facebook link,
it'll take you directly to it.
It's a song that she wrote about how
her life models that of Yisra'el.
And it's a lovely story.
And I hope you enjoy it.
I've certainly listened to it three or
four times already today and have written
about it and pinned it to the Facebook
page.
So consider it.
It's absolutely worth the listen.
Yeah.
Yahowah now continues by introducing us to
what I view as the stars of this
particular show of the garden.
But it's interesting to note that Yahowah is
going to list the Tree of Lives first,
but He's not going to say anything about
it for a very, very long time.
He will eventually in the prophets talk
about having your name written in the Book
of Lives.
But that's thousands of years from the
time that He did, as He's describing here,
presenting these two trees.
And the trees, from God's point of view,
were not created at this time.
They were existing.
And
I want to remind you that the
trees are symbolic of two men. These two
trees, the Tree of Lives and the
Tree of Knowledge, are the greater and
lesser luminaries, the
gadol and qatan
ma'owr in the previous chapter, the opening
chapter of the Torah and BaRa'Shith.
So
it is fascinating to recognize that
they're presented here,
but they're not created here.
And that strongly implies,
since these are the two most important men
in God's story, the two that He said serve as signs
because they fulfill the Mowedym, restoring
witnesses to the eternal testimony of
Yahowah,
the seven annual Miqraey that I've already
shared with you,
that they were six thousand years ago
right there.
So it's becoming ever more evident that
these two individuals, Dowd and Yada,
the King and His herald,
the greater and lesser luminaries,
Lives and Knowledge, have been intertwined
and have been part of the fabric of
Yahowah's plan,
well, from the beginning, you know,
where we have just covered the first and
second chapters of the Torah of BaRa'Shith,
that's as much in the beginning as you
can possibly be.
So it says here, ha 'ets, the tree,
the productive upright life,
firmly embedded with roots and branches of
chayim,
of the lives
plural, renewals and restorations,
revivals which lead to prosperity,
was in the center of HaGan,
this sheltered and enclosed garden,
this protected garden.
Along with, in addition to, ha'ets,
the tree, another productive,
upright life with firmly embedded roots
and branches which reach up to absorb
the light from 'etsah,
providing counsel and advice through
diligence and effort on the entirety of
the plan for the purpose of overcoming
challenges while advocating for people to
make the proper response.
Also masculine singular.
Of ha' da'ath,
of the knowledge.
Of the acquisition of information with the
focus on the application of discernment
and judgment for the purpose of perceiving
and comprehending. It is from the verbal
root yada', which means to know,
to be familiar with, to understand,
and to develop comprehension of towb,
of that which is good and productive,
of that which is beneficial and proper.
Favorable and desirable,
agreeable and pleasing,
moral and appropriate,
useful and valuable, as well as ra',
bad,
wrong, evil, harmful, erroneous,
from corrupt compatriots,
morally inappropriate,
malignant and disagreeable rhetoric,
from loudmouthed associates,
words and actions which are of no value,
morally depraved, displeasing,
and troublesome.
That is BaRa'Shith.
BaRa'Shith means in the beginning.
Genesis 2:9.
So consistent with Yahowah's presentation
of the greater and lesser luminaries and
in conjunction with the Shamak and Ha
Adamah,
we've found that the 'Ets Chayim and the
'Ets Da'ath and the Gan 'Eden represent
our King and Savior,
as well as His herald and voice.
It's the most amazing drama that is going
to play out before our eyes as two
individuals are tossed into the mix.
They are Adam and Chawah.
So these are magnificent developments that
have been laid out before us and
we ought to be celebrating them because
the more we glean from the conditions that
existed in the garden,
the better we are prepared for it.
And in this regard,
one of the things that I think it's
important for you to know is that,
'ets, when scribed as 'etsah,
is given added dimension.
It means that we start with 'ets,
and we see a productive,
upright life form that is firmly embedded,
its roots reaching down into the soil,
the Adamah,
its branches which reach up to absorb the
light of the sun.
And this would be its shamak.
And in its simplest form,
'ets is symbolic of the choter stem,
who is presented as a Natsar observant
branch in Yasha'yah 11.
And it's there that we are told that
his cherished roots keep him,
which is him,
this is a man now,
steadfast so that he can be,
as Yahowah describes him, parah,
productive and fruitful with
all of this confirmed in Yahowah's voice
through Yasha'yah and preserved in the Great
Isaiah Scroll,
it is patently obvious that the choter is
not a messianic figure.
The choter is the Tree of Knowledge pointing to the Tree
of Lives.
I have Tree of Lives always on the
brain.
It's going to be my go-to because my
role is to help you get to Dowd
as the Tree of Lives.
So I'm going to make that slip many,
many times because while God has described
the choter,
absolutely irrefutably as the Tree of
Knowledge.
His entire purpose, his modus operandi,
the moment that he wakes up every morning
to the moment he goes to sleep at
night, he's focused on a single thing,
a single person.
That's the very Son of God,
our Messiah and King, our Savior,
the Chosen One.
He is our former and returning King,
and it is the purpose of the Tree
of Knowledge to bring you back to the
Tree of Lives.
And so he is, according to Yahowah, parah.
He is productive and fruitful.
So the choter is being described using
every metaphor for tree.
As I've shared previously,
you think that's just a string of
coincidences?
Well, I don't think so.
Further tying these stories together when
addressing the allocation of His Ruwach
spirit,
God selected the verbal phrase nuwach 'al-hu
to say that His Spirit,
the Spirit of Yahowah,
will settle and remain on him.
And this just so happens to be the
same verb Yahowah will apply to
positioning Adam in the garden in
BaRa'Shith 2:15.
And ultimately,
God would bestow an additional spiritual
characteristic that is delivered by His
Ruwach to the choter stem.
And interestingly,
they're all presented as feminine
attributes consistent with Ruwach and
giving this lone man,
the choter is masculine singular too,
and all the pronouns are masculine
singular in this discussion,
but it gives this man the Spirit of
Yahowah.
That's the first spirit being allocated to
the choter.
And the very presence
the power, the influence,
the capability of Yah is upon him.
He has the Ruwach of chokmah,
which is intelligence.
The Ruwach of binah,
which is understanding.
And of course, fourth of the enablement's
that is afforded to this man, the choter,
representing the Tree of Knowledge is
'etsah, 'etsah, tree.
And as we just heard, when tree, 'etsah,
is prescribed the ah
ending,
it is a tree providing counsel and advice
on the entirety of the plan.
So yes,
the fourth Ruwach spirit applicable to the
choter designates him as a very special
'ets, one with spiritual qualities.
In God's voice, presented in Yasha'yah,
Yasha'yah 11:2.
If you want to claim that's a coincidence,
then
you aren't smart enough to be listening to
this program.
I would encourage you to go away so
you don't hurt yourself or anybody else in
the process.
A little bit of knowledge and a little
mind can be a very dangerous thing.
God is about to remove all doubt regarding
this 'etsah,
this tree providing the entirety of the
picture through his advice and counsel.
You see, following the Ruwach of Geburah,
which is the fifth of the seven,
which means courage, conviction,
confidence,
which I hope you're witnessing as you
listen to this program.
The choter, according to Yahowah, the stem,
is given the Ruwach of da'ath,
of knowledge.
And that should end the debate for anyone
who is thoughtful.
But why is it?
Two thousand seven hundred years after
Yahowah spoke these words to Yasha'yah and he
wrote them down for our benefit,
is the one who was symbolized by the
tree, the one who is the choter,
the one who is the lesser luminary,
the one who is the Adamah Parah,
why is he the first to figure it
out and to tell you that the choter
is in fact the Tree of Knowledge? Yeah,
it's irrefutable. I guess some might still
be hesitant. I don't know how, but these
are
facts that are indisputable.
The choter has been thought by many to be a
messianic figure.
It's claimed as such,
and I've always viewed that as utter
nonsense.
The presentation is clear that he is a
stem.
Dowd who is the messianic figure is
the shamak,
as we talked in the last program.
That's the main branch that grows from the
tree of lives.
He's not gonna be represented by a choter
stem.
I mean, he can be...
He can be introduced and heralded by a
choter stem,
but he is not going to be reduced
to a stem.
You don't take the shamak and reduce him
to a stem,
just like the greater luminary is not the
lesser luminary,
just as the King is not the herald.
So, the fact of the matter is,
it is the 'Ets Da'ath and not a
messianic figure.
The Tree of Knowledge.
The messianic figure is the Tree of Lives.
Should have been obvious.
What was Dowd when He fulfilled Pesach by
being crucified by the Romans?
What was He hung on?
A tree.
Wood post and that crossbeam.
It's a tree,
a tree that formed the doorway to life.
It was Pesach.
The symbols are all there.
The understanding is there for the taking,
for the benefiting.
This debate over the nature of the choter
should have been resolved long ago.
And
it is in the top two or three
most important prophecies in terms of the
arrival of individuals during the last
days that it's ever uttered.
In others,
two or three references to Dowd returning
as King,
and yet no one gives him credit as
being the one that God said that my
son Dowd is returning with me as King.
There is not a single prophecy that tells
us that there's going to be a returning
Messiah whose mission is going to be to
save the world.
And yet two religions are based almost
entirely on it.
And yet there's an entire chapter of
Yasha'yah and an entire mashal word picture
described by Dowd himself devoted to this
choter who uniquely has the seven spirits
of Yahowah.
And he writes a nes from which I
am sharing the very sign that Yahowah spoke
of that was going to be scribed by
the greater and lesser luminaries who
served as banners for the Mowedym.
It is a very clear, direct,
consistent story from beginning to end.
Few things are really as important as
knowing this.
And oh, by the way,
that fruit of the da'ath of knowledge,
the seventh spiritual gift is the yir'ah,
respect for Yahowah.
That's what it is ultimately delivering.
And as is often the case,
the prophets contribute to our
understanding of the Torah.
With Yasha'yah 11:1 and 2,
explaining what we are now witnessing here
in BaRa'Shith 1 and 2.
You need to make the connections to pull
these things together.
But there is more.
Not only would Yada be the first to
make this connection between the choter
and the Tree of Knowledge,
he is also the first to recognize Dowd
as the 'Ets Chayim, the Tree of Lives.
And this is because the gadol ma'owr,
the greater luminary, fulfilled Pesach,
Passover, in year 4000 Yah,
consistent with the narrative on the
fourth day in BaRa'Shith 1.
Collectively,
these are among the greatest discoveries
ever made pursuant to Yahowah.
And they
were all delivered and derived by Yada as
the choter,
representing the Tree of Knowledge
regarding Dowd as our Savior,
the greater luminary and the Tree of
Lives.
No,
should you not care about God's symbols,
you just want to cut to the chase.
I don't know what chase you want to
cut to.
Should you not think it's important to
know Yahowah's name that Dowd
He is actually the Son of God and
the Messiah who fulfilled Pesach, Matsah,
and Bikuwrym, and therefore is our Savior,
and that it is Dowd who is the
King who is returning with Yahowah,
and the date is certain,
on October 2nd, 2033.
Should these things not resonate with you?
Should you not really care about how God's
story is being fulfilled?
Then I can tell you you're going to
be viewed as God viewed Adam.
As dull, uninteresting, boring,
as someone who didn't listen,
was unwilling to engage in a constructive
way,
and most certainly was not reliable or
interesting.
The fact is, as I have shared previously,
without Yada,
the fact is that no one knows that
Dowd fulfilled Pesach, Matsah, Bikuwrym,
that He is the Tree of Lives.
And if you don't know that,
you can't consume its fruit and you will
not survive past eight years from now.
You will not be among the entrance back
into 'Eden.
You have to know this,
to engage in a relationship with God,
to be part of His Covenant family.
It is an essential aspect of knowledge.
It is the primary theme of the Mizmowr
all the way through of Dowd.
That He volunteered to fulfill Pesach as
the Passover Lamb,
that His nephesh soul carried our guilt
into She'owl and deposited there to perfect
us so that we could be enriched and
empowered by God and be adopted into His
family on Bikuwrym by the Bikuwr,
Firstborn of Yah.
This is an essential understanding.
It was the discovery that is part of
the fruit of the Tree of Knowledge.
It was not discerned
anyone else or stated as emphatically by
anyone over the last twenty-five hundred
years.
And so now, you know,
this is the who, the what, the where,
the why, the when and the how.
Of the greatest story ever told.
And you are among the privileged few who
are hearing it and can capitalize upon it.
Learn from it and grow.
Then understand and make a contribution
such that you too are valued by Yah.
Well,
I thank you for listening and look forward
to sharing with you again tomorrow.
I know this was a shorter program than
normal, only about
thirty-seven minutes in length and we
normally go just past an hour.
But under the circumstances,
I think this is a good place for
us to stop.
We'll pick up our analysis tomorrow with
this series on our return to the garden.
Good night.
NOTE: Cleaned and proofread on 2025-12-04